.TH TEAMS 1 "May 26, 2026" "teams-cli 0.2.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
teams \- Microsoft Teams CLI for Microsoft Graph automation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B teams
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B teams
is a single-binary Rust CLI for Microsoft Teams automation through Microsoft
Graph. It is designed for AI agents, scripts, and CI jobs that need structured
JSON output, deterministic exit codes, headless authentication, and predictable
stderr logging.
.PP
When stdout is a terminal, output defaults to human-readable output. When
stdout is piped, output defaults to JSON. Use
.B --output
to force a format.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B -o, --output json|human|plain
Select output format. This is the global output-format selector.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Suppress non-essential output.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Increase log verbosity. Repeat for debug and trace logging. Logs go to stderr.
.TP
.B --no-color
Disable ANSI color codes.
.TP
.B --config PATH
Read and write configuration at PATH instead of the platform default.
.TP
.B --profile NAME
Use a named credential profile. Defaults to
.B default
or the configured default profile.
.TP
.B --timeout SECONDS
Override Graph request timeout.
.TP
.B --retry COUNT
Override retry attempts for transient Graph failures.
.TP
.B --page-size COUNT
Set page size for paginated list commands.
.TP
.B --all-pages
Follow Graph pagination and return all pages.
.SH AUTHENTICATION
.nf
teams auth login [--client-credentials] [--device-code] [--client-id ID] [--client-secret SECRET] [--tenant-id ID] [--scopes SCOPES]
teams auth refresh [--scopes SCOPES]
teams auth status
teams auth consent-url [--client-id ID] [--tenant-id ID] [--scopes SCOPES]
teams auth doctor [--client-id ID] [--tenant-id ID]
teams auth list
teams auth switch NAME
teams auth logout [--profile NAME] [--all]
teams auth token [--format bearer|json]
.fi
.PP
Delegated login defaults to the OSO multi-tenant public client app and the
.B organizations
authority when no client ID or tenant ID is configured. Customer-owned app
registrations can still be selected with
.B --client-id
and
.B --tenant-id.
Client credentials always require explicit customer app credentials.
Credential resolution for explicit client ID and tenant ID is CLI flag,
environment variable, then config profile. Client secret resolution is CLI
flag, then
.B TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_SECRET.
Delegated scope resolution is
.B --scopes
or
.B TEAMS_CLI_SCOPES,
then the profile
.B scopes
field, then the built-in default delegated scopes.
.B teams auth refresh
silently redeems the stored refresh token for the resolved scopes, picking up
newly admin-consented permissions without a browser; without an explicit
override it reuses the stored token's scope.
Normal command token resolution is
.B TEAMS_CLI_ACCESS_TOKEN
then the OS keyring token for the selected profile.
.SH USER COMMANDS
.nf
teams user me
teams user get USER_ID_OR_UPN
teams user list [--filter ODATA_FILTER]
.fi
.SH CONFIG COMMANDS
.nf
teams config init
teams config show
teams config get KEY
teams config set KEY VALUE
teams config path
teams config profiles
.fi
.PP
See
.BR teams-config (5)
for file layout and examples.
.SH TEAM COMMANDS
.nf
teams team list
teams team get TEAM_ID
teams team create --name NAME [--description TEXT]
teams team update TEAM_ID [--name NAME] [--description TEXT]
teams team delete TEAM_ID
teams team clone TEAM_ID --name NAME [--parts LIST] [--visibility public|private] [--description TEXT]
teams team archive TEAM_ID
teams team unarchive TEAM_ID
teams team members list TEAM_ID
teams team members add TEAM_ID --user-id USER_ID [--role member|owner]
teams team members remove TEAM_ID MEMBER_ID
.fi
.SH CHANNEL COMMANDS
.nf
teams channel list TEAM_ID
teams channel get TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID
teams channel create TEAM_ID --name NAME [--description TEXT] [--membership-type standard|private|shared]
teams channel create TEAM_ID --name NAME --type private
teams channel update TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID [--name NAME] [--description TEXT]
teams channel delete TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID
teams channel members list TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID
teams channel members add TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID --user-id USER_ID [--role member|owner]
teams channel members remove TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID MEMBER_ID
.fi
.SH MESSAGE COMMANDS
.nf
teams message send (--team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID | --chat CHAT_ID) [--body TEXT | --stdin] [--content-type text|html] [--adaptive-card PATH] [--image PATH]... [--attach PATH]...
teams message list (--team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID | --chat CHAT_ID)
teams message get --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID (MESSAGE_ID | --message MESSAGE_ID) [--with-attachments]
teams message attachments list (--team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID [--reply REPLY_ID] | --chat CHAT_ID) (MESSAGE_ID | --message MESSAGE_ID)
teams message attachments download (--team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID [--reply REPLY_ID] | --chat CHAT_ID) (MESSAGE_ID | --message MESSAGE_ID) [--index N] [--dir DIR | --path FILE]
teams message reply --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --message-id MESSAGE_ID [--body TEXT | --stdin] [--content-type text|html] [--image PATH]... [--attach PATH]...
teams message reply --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --message MESSAGE_ID --body TEXT
teams message update --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID (MESSAGE_ID | --message MESSAGE_ID) --body TEXT [--content-type text|html]
teams message delete --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID (MESSAGE_ID | --message MESSAGE_ID)
teams message react --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --message-id MESSAGE_ID (REACTION | --reaction REACTION)
teams message unreact --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --message-id MESSAGE_ID (REACTION | --reaction REACTION)
teams message pin --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID (MESSAGE_ID | --message MESSAGE_ID)
teams message unpin --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID (PINNED_MESSAGE_ID | --pinned-message-id PINNED_MESSAGE_ID)
.fi
.PP
Supported reaction names depend on Microsoft Graph. Common values include
.B like,
.B heart,
.B laugh,
.B surprised,
.B sad,
and
.B angry.
.SH CHAT COMMANDS
.nf
teams chat list
teams chat get CHAT_ID
teams chat create [--chat-type group|oneOnOne] [--type group|oneOnOne] [--topic TOPIC] [--members USER_ID[:owner|guest],USER_ID[:owner|guest]]
teams chat update CHAT_ID --topic TOPIC
teams chat hide CHAT_ID --user-id USER_ID
teams chat unhide CHAT_ID --user-id USER_ID
teams chat members list CHAT_ID
teams chat members add CHAT_ID --user-id USER_ID [--role member|owner]
teams chat members remove CHAT_ID MEMBER_ID
.fi
.SH PRESENCE COMMANDS
.nf
teams presence get
teams presence get --user USER_ID
teams presence get --user-id USER_ID
teams presence get --users USER_ID,USER_ID
teams presence get --user-ids USER_ID,USER_ID
teams presence get-batch --user-ids USER_ID,USER_ID
teams presence set --availability AVAILABILITY --activity ACTIVITY [--expiration ISO8601_DURATION]
teams presence status --message TEXT [--expiry ISO8601_DATETIME]
teams presence clear
.fi
.SH SEARCH COMMANDS
.nf
teams search messages QUERY [--top COUNT]
teams search messages --query QUERY [--top COUNT]
teams search users QUERY [--top COUNT]
teams search users --query QUERY [--top COUNT]
teams search teams QUERY
teams search teams --query QUERY
.fi
.SH TAG COMMANDS
.nf
teams tag list TEAM_ID
teams tag get TEAM_ID TAG_ID
teams tag create TEAM_ID --name NAME [--members USER_ID,USER_ID]
teams tag update TEAM_ID TAG_ID --name NAME
teams tag delete TEAM_ID TAG_ID
teams tag add-member TEAM_ID TAG_ID --user USER_ID
teams tag remove-member TEAM_ID TAG_ID --user USER_ID
.fi
.SH MEETING COMMANDS
.nf
teams meeting list
teams meeting get MEETING_ID
teams meeting create --subject SUBJECT [--start ISO8601] [--end ISO8601] [--allowed-presenters VALUE]
teams meeting update MEETING_ID [--subject SUBJECT] [--start ISO8601] [--end ISO8601] [--allowed-presenters VALUE]
teams meeting delete MEETING_ID
teams meeting join-url MEETING_ID
teams meeting attendance MEETING_ID [--report-id REPORT_ID]
.fi
.SH NOTIFICATION COMMANDS
.nf
teams notify send (--user USER_ID | --users USER_ID,USER_ID) --topic TEXT --activity-type TYPE --preview TEXT
teams notify send-to-team TEAM_ID --topic TEXT --activity-type TYPE --preview TEXT [--recipient-user USER_ID]
teams notify send-to-chat CHAT_ID --topic TEXT --activity-type TYPE --preview TEXT [--recipient-user USER_ID]
.fi
.SH APP AND TAB COMMANDS
.nf
teams app list TEAM_ID
teams app install TEAM_ID --app-id CATALOG_APP_ID
teams app uninstall TEAM_ID --app-id INSTALLATION_ID
teams tab list TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID
teams tab create TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID --app-id APP_ID --name NAME --content-url URL
teams tab delete TEAM_ID CHANNEL_ID --tab-id TAB_ID
.fi
.SH FILE COMMANDS
.nf
teams file list --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID
teams file get --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --file-id FILE_ID
teams file upload --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --file PATH [--name NAME]
teams file upload --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --stdin --name NAME
teams file download --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --file-id FILE_ID [--path PATH]
teams file delete --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --file-id FILE_ID
teams file share --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --file-id FILE_ID [--link-type view|edit|embed] [--scope anonymous|organization]
.fi
.PP
If
.B teams file download
is run without
.B --path,
file bytes are written to stdout. Use
.B --path
for a destination file because global
.B --output
is reserved for json, human, and plain output formats.
.SH SUBSCRIPTIONS AND LISTENER
.nf
teams subscribe create --resource RESOURCE --change-type TYPES --webhook-url URL [--expiration ISO8601] [--client-state STATE]
teams subscribe list
teams subscribe renew SUBSCRIPTION_ID [--expiration ISO8601]
teams subscribe delete SUBSCRIPTION_ID
teams listen [--port PORT]
.fi
.PP
Microsoft Graph requires HTTPS notification URLs. The local listener is plain
HTTP and is intended to sit behind a reverse proxy such as ngrok for testing.
It emits change notifications as newline-delimited JSON.
.SH COMPLETIONS
.nf
teams completions bash
teams completions zsh
teams completions fish
teams completions powershell
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_ACCESS_TOKEN
Pre-obtained access token. Skips keyring lookup.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_ID
Azure AD application client ID.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_SECRET
Azure AD client secret for client credentials auth.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_TENANT_ID
Azure AD tenant ID.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_SCOPES
Delegated OAuth scopes for login. Same precedence as
.B --scopes.
Ignored by client credentials login.
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Tracing filter, for example
.B debug
or
.B teams=trace.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error or unauthenticated
.B auth status.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments or invalid input.
.TP
.B 3
Authentication error or expired token.
.TP
.B 4
Permission denied.
.TP
.B 5
Resource not found.
.TP
.B 6
Rate limited after retries.
.TP
.B 7
Network error or timeout.
.TP
.B 8
Server error after retries.
.TP
.B 10
Configuration or keyring error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR teams-config (5),
.BR teams-auth (7),
.BR teams-agent-contract (7),
.BR teams-examples (7)
