.TH TEAMS-CONFIG 5 "May 26, 2026" "teams-cli 0.2.2" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
teams-config \- configuration file for the teams CLI
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B teams
CLI reads a TOML configuration file unless overridden with
.B --config PATH.
The default path is platform-specific:
.PP
.nf
Linux:   ~/.config/teams-cli/config.toml
macOS:   ~/Library/Application Support/teams-cli/config.toml
Windows: %APPDATA%\\teams-cli\\config.toml
.fi
.PP
Access tokens are not stored in this file. Login stores tokens in the operating
system keyring. Client secrets should normally be provided through environment
variables or a secret manager, not committed to config.
.SH FORMAT
.nf
[default]
profile = "prod"
output = "json"
page_size = 50
timeout = 30
retry = 3
color = true

[output]
format = "auto"
color = true
page_size = 50

[network]
timeout = 30
max_retries = 3
retry_backoff_base = 2

[profiles.prod]
tenant_id = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
auth_flow = "device-code"

[profiles.locked-down]
auth_app = "byo"
client_id = "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
tenant_id = "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
auth_flow = "device-code"
.fi
.SH DEFAULT SECTION
.TP
.B profile
Default profile used when
.B --profile
is not supplied or is
.B default.
.TP
.B output
Default output format override. Valid values are
.B auto,
.B json,
.B human,
and
.B plain.
.TP
.B page_size
Default page size for paginated list operations. Overridden by global
.B --page-size.
.TP
.B timeout
Default request timeout in seconds. Overridden by global
.B --timeout.
.TP
.B retry
Default retry attempts for transient network, 429, and 5xx errors. Overridden
by global
.B --retry.
.TP
.B color
Boolean color preference for human output.
.SH OUTPUT SECTION
.TP
.B format
Output format used when no CLI output flag and no default output override are
set. The default is
.B auto.
.TP
.B color
Enable or disable color in human output.
.TP
.B page_size
Fallback page size for paginated operations.
.SH NETWORK SECTION
.TP
.B timeout
HTTP request timeout in seconds.
.TP
.B max_retries
Maximum retry count for transient failures.
.TP
.B retry_backoff_base
Base for exponential backoff delays. Retry delay is calculated as
.B base^attempt
for retryable network failures and 5xx errors. HTTP 429 honors the
.B Retry-After
header when present.
.SH PROFILES
Each profile is defined under
.B [profiles.NAME].
.TP
.B client_id
Azure AD application client ID.
.TP
.B auth_app
Delegated auth app selector. Use
.B oso
or omit this field for the built-in OSO public client app. Use
.B byo
when a customer-owned Entra app registration must be supplied with
.B client_id.
.TP
.B tenant_id
Azure AD tenant ID.
.TP
.B auth_flow
Preferred authentication flow for humans reading the config. Current values
used by docs and examples include
.B client-credentials,
.B device-code,
and
.B auth-code-pkce.
.SH RESOLUTION ORDER
Client ID and tenant ID resolution:
.nf
1. CLI flag
2. TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_ID or TEAMS_CLI_TENANT_ID
3. Selected config profile
.fi
.PP
Client secret resolution:
.nf
1. CLI flag
2. TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_SECRET
.fi
.PP
Access token resolution for normal commands:
.nf
1. TEAMS_CLI_ACCESS_TOKEN
2. OS keyring token for selected profile
.fi
.SH COMMANDS
.nf
teams config init
teams config show
teams config get KEY
teams config set KEY VALUE
teams config path
teams config profiles
.fi
.PP
.B config set
preserves TOML scalar types for booleans, integers, floats, null, and strings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR teams (1),
.BR teams-auth (7),
.BR teams-agent-contract (7),
.BR teams-examples (7)
