.TH TEAMS-AUTH 7 "May 26, 2026" "teams-cli 0.2.3" "Miscellaneous Information"
.SH NAME
teams-auth \- authentication model for the teams CLI
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B teams
CLI authenticates to Microsoft Graph. For normal Teams chat and channel
message workflows, the commercial model is delegated authentication: a user
signs in, Microsoft Graph calls run on behalf of that user, and Teams messages
appear as that user.
.PP
Client credentials produce app-only tokens. App-only Graph access is valid for
some APIs, but it is not the default model for normal live Teams message
posting.
.SH DEFAULT OSO APP
Delegated login defaults to the OSO multi-tenant public client app:
.PP
.nf
Client ID: fba1b5d0-fdd0-4fe2-9729-9ccdc38f9595
Authority: organizations
Redirect URI: http://localhost:8400/callback
.fi
.PP
Common login commands:
.PP
.nf
teams auth login
teams auth login --device-code
teams auth doctor --output json
.fi
.PP
The OSO app is built into the CLI as the default delegated public client. It
must be publisher verified before broad external commercial release.
.SH ADMIN CONSENT
Print an admin consent URL:
.PP
.nf
teams auth consent-url --tenant-id TENANT_ID_OR_DOMAIN --output json
.fi
.PP
For customer onboarding, prefer a concrete tenant ID or verified tenant domain
instead of
.B organizations.
.SH BYO APP
Some tenants require customer-owned app registrations. Configure a profile with
.B auth_app = "byo"
and provide a client ID:
.PP
.nf
[profiles.customer]
auth_app = "byo"
client_id = "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
tenant_id = "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
auth_flow = "device-code"
.fi
.PP
Then run:
.PP
.nf
teams --profile customer auth login --device-code
teams --profile customer auth doctor --output json
.fi
.SH CLIENT CREDENTIALS
Client credentials are explicit and require a customer-owned confidential app:
.PP
.nf
export TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_ID=...
export TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_SECRET=...
export TEAMS_CLI_TENANT_ID=...
teams auth login --client-credentials
.fi
.PP
Use app-only tokens only for Microsoft Graph operations that support
application permissions for the intended scenario. Do not use client
credentials as the normal live chat/channel send model.
.SH MESSAGE POSTING
Normal message mutation commands require delegated auth:
.PP
.nf
teams message send
teams message reply
teams message update
teams message delete
teams message react
teams message unreact
teams message pin
teams message unpin
.fi
.PP
If the token looks app-only, these commands return a permission error before
calling Microsoft Graph.
.SH FUTURE UNATTENDED POSTING
For unattended service-identity posting, the intended future direction is a
Teams app/bot proactive messaging mode. In that model a customer installs a
Teams app or bot, and messages are sent as that app identity instead of a
delegated human user.
.SH TOKEN STORAGE
Tokens are stored in the operating system credential store:
.PP
.nf
macOS:   Keychain
Windows: Credential Manager
Linux:   Secret Service-compatible keyring
.fi
.PP
The config file stores profile and app settings, not access tokens.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_ACCESS_TOKEN
Use a pre-obtained bearer token and skip keyring lookup.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_ID
Entra app client ID.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_SECRET
Client secret for client credentials flow.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_TENANT_ID
Tenant ID or tenant domain.
.TP
.B TEAMS_CLI_DISABLE_KEYRING
Test-only switch used to avoid OS keyring access in automated tests. Do not use
for real login sessions.
.SH KNOWN GAPS
Stored access tokens are refreshed automatically when a refresh token is
available. If the refresh token is missing, expired, revoked, or rejected by
the identity platform, run:
.PP
.nf
teams auth login --device-code
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR teams (1),
.BR teams-config (5),
.BR teams-agent-contract (7),
.BR teams-examples (7)
