.TH TEAMS-AGENT-CONTRACT 7 "May 26, 2026" "teams-cli 0.2.0" "Miscellaneous Information"
.SH NAME
teams-agent-contract \- automation contract for the teams CLI
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B teams
CLI is intended to be called by agents and scripts as a subprocess. This page
documents the behavior those callers can depend on before live Microsoft Graph
validation.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
When stdout is a terminal,
.B teams
defaults to human-readable output. When stdout is not a terminal,
.B teams
defaults to JSON. The global
.B --output json|human|plain
flag overrides detection.
.PP
Logs, progress spinners, and tracing are written to stderr. JSON intended for
agent parsing is written to stdout.
.SH SUCCESS ENVELOPE
.nf
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {},
  "metadata": {
    "request_id": "uuid",
    "timestamp": "2026-05-26T00:00:00Z",
    "api_version": "v1.0",
    "duration_ms": 123
  }
}
.fi
.SH ERROR ENVELOPE
.nf
{
  "success": false,
  "error": {
    "code": "AUTH_FAILED",
    "message": "Authentication failed: ..."
  },
  "metadata": {
    "request_id": "uuid",
    "timestamp": "2026-05-26T00:00:00Z",
    "api_version": "v1.0"
  }
}
.fi
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error. Also used by
.B teams auth status
when unauthenticated after printing an
.B authenticated: false
payload.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid CLI arguments or invalid input.
.TP
.B 3
Authentication failed or token expired.
.TP
.B 4
Permission denied by Microsoft Graph.
.TP
.B 5
Requested resource was not found.
.TP
.B 6
Rate limited after configured retries.
.TP
.B 7
Network error or timeout.
.TP
.B 8
Server error after configured retries.
.TP
.B 10
Configuration or keyring error.
.SH RETRY AND PAGINATION
Microsoft Graph calls go through a shared client that applies request timeout,
bearer authentication, retries, and pagination. HTTP 429 honors
.B Retry-After.
HTTP 5xx and network send failures use exponential backoff. List commands use
.B --page-size
and can follow all pages with
.B --all-pages.
.SH AUTHENTICATION FOR AGENTS
For automation that posts normal Teams chat or channel messages, use a
delegated profile or a future Teams bot mode. Microsoft Graph app-only tokens
are not a general live message posting model.
.PP
Delegated auth defaults to the OSO public client app:
.PP
.nf
teams auth login --device-code
teams auth doctor --output json
.fi
.PP
For Microsoft Graph operations that explicitly support application permissions,
use client credentials or a pre-obtained access token:
.PP
.nf
export TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_ID=...
export TEAMS_CLI_CLIENT_SECRET=...
export TEAMS_CLI_TENANT_ID=...
teams auth login --client-credentials

export TEAMS_CLI_ACCESS_TOKEN=...
teams team list --output json
.fi
.PP
Do not put secrets in command transcripts, tests, man pages, examples, or logs.
.SH LIVE VALIDATION CHECKLIST
Before using the tool against production Teams data, validate with a dedicated
test tenant, test team, and test channel.
.PP
Read-only checks:
.nf
teams auth status --output json
teams user me --output json
teams team list --output json
teams channel list TEAM_ID --output json
teams message list --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --output json
.fi
.PP
Controlled write checks:
.nf
teams message send --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --body "teams-cli smoke test" --output json
teams message reply --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --message-id MESSAGE_ID --body "reply smoke test" --output json
teams file upload --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --stdin --name teams-cli-smoke.txt < smoke.txt
teams file download --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --file-id FILE_ID --path /tmp/teams-cli-smoke.txt
.fi
.PP
Cleanup checks:
.nf
teams message delete --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID MESSAGE_ID --output json
teams file delete --team TEAM_ID --channel CHANNEL_ID --file-id FILE_ID --output json
.fi
.PP
Do not run destructive commands such as team delete, archive, unarchive, app
uninstall, or subscription delete outside explicit test targets.
.SH WINDOWS NOTES
The release workflow builds
.B x86_64-pc-windows-msvc
on
.B windows-latest.
CI also runs tests on Windows. The config path uses the platform config
directory, which is normally
.B %APPDATA%\\teams-cli\\config.toml
on Windows. Token storage uses Windows Credential Manager through the
.B keyring
crate.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR teams (1),
.BR teams-auth (7),
.BR teams-config (5),
.BR teams-examples (7)
